Acting like a pump,
the human heart is a muscle that
contracts and relaxes
each time it beats.
There are four heart compartments,
or chambers.
The upper two are the atria,
and the lower two are the ventricles.
Blood comes into the chambers
and is then pumped to the rest
of the body to supply nourishment.
The flow of blood inside the heart
is controlled by four thin,
flexible valves that open
and close with each heartbeat.
They are the tricuspid valve,
the pulmonic valve,
the mitral valve,
and the aortic valve.
The aortic valve is composed of
3 tissue flaps, called leaflets.
It is located between the
left ventricle and the aorta,
the blood vessel that carries
blood to the rest of the body.
The aortic valve opens to move blood
from the heart into the aorta
and normally closes tightly
between each  heartbeat,
to keep the blood from flowing
back into the heart.
Aortic valve regurgitation means
the valve does not close completely
between heartbeats,
and blood from the aorta
can move backward into the heart.